# movie_recommendation_system
Recommendation Systems have been in existence for a long time and have served towards convenience of people. In the most general way, recommender systems are algorithms aimed at suggesting relevant items to users(items being books to read, products to buy, music to listen or as in our case, movies to watch.) The most common approach towards recommendation systems has been the Content-based recommendations. Content-based techniques develop representations of clients and items through the investigation of additional data, for example, record content, client proles and the traits of items, to make suggestions .In many cases, the data that is utilized to build the pictures is difcult to get or even fake; subsequently, its presentation and application run experience the ill effects of signicant restrictions. Thus, we take another approach called as the Collaborative Filtering where instead of only depending upon the attributes of the item, we let our users rate different items and based on such ratings we make recommendations using two ways, either by User-User similarities or Item-Item Similarities. In User-User similarity approach, we let our users rate movies and then find other users who rated movies similarly to our test user i.e we find other users who feel similarly as our test user. On the other hand, an Item-Item approach includes letting our user rate items and then find other items that have similar ratings. Although this method is simple and effective, with the rapid development of the Internet, the high sparsity of the data limits the performance of the algorithm. To overcome it, we will combine collaborative filtering with Neural Networks We will use neural network embeddings to improve our model.
Content-Based Recommendation System :This approach for recommending movies does not involve other users. Based on what we like, our algorithm will pick similar items i.e items having similar content and recommend us.
Collaborative Filtering Recommendation System :The previous approach didnt involve other users and in so it had some shortcomings. Such limitations involve the recommendations not being diverse as discussed before. To solve such problems we use the collaborative filtering technique. This approach is based on the idea that the user rates, and the system will recommend different movies that the user has not watched but the other users similar to our test user have watched and liked. This type of collaborative filtering approach is called the User-to-User Collaborative filtering approach as we find similar users to our user.
Neural Network Approach :Lastly, we will combine our collaborative filtering results with neural network techniques to improve the quality of our recommendations. We will be using neural network embeddings to get desired results.
